Welcome back!
If you taken some of the other courses in
this specialization, you might recall that
we introduced a framework called
the Information-Action Value Chain.
This framework describes the sequential
process that starts with events and
characteristics in the real world, and
ends with an action in the market place.
In this video,
we're going to spend just a few minutes
reintroducing the value chains, so
we can set the stage for the rest of the
topics we'll be covering in the course.
Broadly, we can think about the practice
of analytics in three parts.
Things that happen before we
execute the analytical methods,
the methods themselves, and
things that happen afterwards.
Lets begin by reviewing what happens
before we execute analytics.
We start with something in the real world.
This could be an event,
like someone making a purchase or
using a product or service,
the person or product itself, or
even natural phenomenal like a thunder
storm or the temperature outside.
For any of these things to be of use to
me as an analyst, I need to have data.
There needs to be a mechanism
that captures a physical or
digital representation of that real
world phenomenon and puts it somewhere.
For every event of interest
in the real world,
there needs to be a system
that captures it.
We often refer to these as source systems.
For a variety of reasons,
it's usually not practical for
an analyst to access data
directly in source systems.
It tends to be more convenient to bring
data together in some common location, and
organize it in a way that is
more suitable for analysis.
Most often this location is a physical
system called a data warehouse or
enterprise data warehouse, although there
are a variety of methods of doing this,
both physical and virtual.
However, to actually use this data
in something like a statistical
software package,
a business intelligence tool or
even Excel, we need a way to extract
the data we want to work with.
The extraction method will vary based
on how the data is stored, but for
relational databases it usually involves
the application of structured query
language or SQL.
Once we have a data set suitable for
analysis, we can move
onto the second part of our value chain,
actually executing analytical methods.
There are a ton of different
ways to analyze data, but
broadly speaking they tend to
fall into three categories.
Descriptive analytics, predictive
analytics and prescriptive analytics.
If you've taken other courses in this
specialization or other courses in data
analytics, chances are you've already been
exposed to a number of these techniques.
But as a quick review, recall that
descriptive analytics help us describe
what things look like now or
what happened in the past.
The idea is to use that information to
better understand the business environment
and how it works and to apply that
knowledge along with business acumen to
make better decisions going forward.
Descriptive analytics can take the form of
simple aggregations or cross tabulations
of data, simple statistical measures,
more sophisticated applications
of descriptive statistics or advanced
association or clustering algorithm.
Predictive analytics helps us take what we
know about what happened in the past, and
use that information to help us predict
what will happen in the future.
This almost always involves
the application of advanced statistical
methods or other numeric techniques.
Finally, prescriptive analytics provides
recommendations on what we should do or
what choice we should make to
achieve a certain outcome.
It usually involves the integration
of numerical optimization techniques,
with business rules and
even financial models.
As you might imagine, an analytical
project might use a combination of
descriptive, predictive and prescriptive
methods to achieve a particular objective.
Once the analytical
methods have been applied,
we move on to the third
part of our framework.
It's really this part of the process
where we will be spending most of our
time in this course.
The first step in taking our analysis
to action, is to summarize and
interpret results.
Mechanically, summarizing an analysis
usually involves identifying the few
charts, graphs or tables, that make it as
easy as possible to see what's going on.
And supplementing those figures with
a short narrative that explains
what they mean.
However, this is usually
much easier said than done.
Determining how to best visualize data,
can be a real challenge.
Doing this well is as much
an art as it is a science.
Interpreting data analysis often
requires a high degree of context and
a deep understanding about
how a business works.
Once we understand what's
actually going on,
we can use those insights to create
a plan for how to take some action.
Often this involves setting a high level
strategy, then developing specific actions
or tactics that we can take to
achieve a specific outcome.
We can develop alternatives, discuss pros
and cons, develop financial models, or
run a follow on analysis
to help assess each option.
However, even if we're able to come up for
a plan for action that we think
will have a meaningful impact,
it's likely that we're going to have
to convince someone to actually do it.
We called this step of
the process Delivering the Pitch.
Here, it's critical that we effectively
communicate our results and
sell the merit of our proposal.
We'll spend a fair amount of time in this
course talking about how to communicate
results.
But generally speaking,
clarity, simplicity,
value and quality will be key
ideas that guide our approach.
If we are successful, we reach the final
stage of our framework, taking action.
The nature of the action depends on our
strategy and objectives, and quite often
will involve another round of analysis to
assess the impact we've had in the market.
So let's recap what we've covered today.
We reviewed the steps that happen
before our analysis begins,
we describe three types of analytics,
descriptive, predictive and
prescriptive, and we outline the steps we
take after applying analytical methods
to take our analysis to
action in the market.
Again in this course, we'll spend most
of our time learning about what happens
after the analysis is complete.
But keep in mind how this steps relate
to our analytical process as a whole.
See you next time.